kathy oversees a breeding program for
eye eyes
here in north carolina and each new baby
is a precious lifeline for a species
classified as critically endangered in
the wild
just two babies have been born here this
year and kathy
is very worried about one of them named
styx she was born weighing only 65 grams
that's the weight of
one of my chicken's eggs half what she
should weigh
we realized after the first few hours
that this infant wasn't able to nurse
properly
i didn't know whether she wasn't nursing
because she was cold
or whether she was too weak to nurse or
exactly what the problem was
yeah it doesn't look it doesn't look
good
i mean if sticks is to survive
she's got to start feeding and fast
with the iii's home on the island of
madagascar being destroyed by human
activity
every little captive ai is becoming
increasingly important
because of their quirky looks an elusive
nocturnal lifestyle
aye eyes have become part of madagascar
folklore
they're feared and persecuted as the
bringers of bad omens
but in reality they're completely
harmless very shy
and gentle little creatures
they have developed some particularly
specialized anatomy to be able to
get at larva that are burrowing
underneath tree bark or in rotted logs
it may look like a mishmash but in
reality it's an evolutionary masterpiece
they actually have this very elongated
third digit it's on a ball and socket
joint so it can go all the way around
that's normal
and they tap this extremely extremely
fast and
then the reverberations of the sound
they can detect the differences
in density of the material that they're
tapping on and that's
where the big ears come in to play so
the huge ears are an essential part of
the design
needed for the way they hunt and they're
not something pinched off a bat and
stuck on
interestingly 100 years ago people
actually thought they were related to
bats
they're not next they have to get the
larvae out
and this is where their long razor sharp
and continuously growing
incisor teeth take over
they make short work of chewing through
the wood to the tunnel beneath
and then that peculiar finger really
comes into its own
and gotcha
yummy but for sticks
larvae dinners are a long way off she
needs mother's milk
and she needs it fast we always try and
get them
to nurse on mom within the first day or
two to get them some colostrum
which is that first milk that mom
produces that's very high in antibodies
it's very protective for the infants to
have the best chance of surviving
stixx really does need that first feed
she seems to like her pillowcase she's
so tiny
the plan at this time is that we will
bring mom out and we're gonna
sedate her and that's so that mom will
be quiet while we put the infant onto
nurse
all right sweet stuff let's see if you
can how active you are and how hungry
you are
okay so i'm hoping that she is going to
be strong enough that she
is interested in just latching on
herself so all we're really doing is
making it easier for the baby to get on
making sure she stays on
well easier said than done um because it
doesn't look like she's staying on
she want to spot her she doesn't
she just popped off let's see if she can
do it herself she can do it herself
that's
obviously ideal did you do it yeah she
did it
did she do it all right oh wait wait now
she's off again
so i actually needed to open up the
infant's mouth with my little finger
and literally put the nipple right in
the mouth
and then there was some sucking reflex
it was weaker that i wanted to see it
meaning that that infant was
not really strong enough to initiate
nursing on her own but once she got on
the nipple she could
suckle to some extent
[Music]
styx is getting as much care as any baby
could wish for she's fed
every two hours has regular checkups
and a cozy incubator to keep her warm
and she even gets
a regular cuddle with mum so their bond
remains strong
it's still touch and go but she's got
the whole team
fighting for her
[Music]
[Applause]
foreign